feat: improve cart performance with promotions (#8425)
shopware/platform: changelog/_unreleased/2025-04-15-improve-promotion-calculation.md

---
title: Improve promotion calculation
issue: #8329
---
# Core
* Changed `getTotalPriceAmount` and `getUnitPriceAmount` method visibilities to public in `\Shopware\Core\Checkout\Cart\Price\Struct\PriceCollection`

> * Added new `buildCollectionRules` method in `\Shopware\Core\Checkout\Cart\Tax\PercentageTaxRuleBuilder`. No `\Shopware\Core\Checkout\Cart\Tax\CalculatedPrice` is needed, just the total price and `\Shopware\Core\Checkout\Cart\Tax\Struct\CalculatedTaxCollection`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added new `buildCollectionRules` method in `\Shopware\Core\Checkout\Cart\Tax\PercentageTaxRuleBuilder`. With it, a `\Shopware\Core\Checkout\Cart\Tax\CalculatedPrice` is no longer needed, just the total price and a `\Shopware\Core\Checkout\Cart\Tax\Struct\CalculatedTaxCollection`.
```

* Changed `getMatchingItems` in `\Shopware\Core\Checkout\Promotion\Cart\Discount\ScopePackager\CartScopeDiscountPackager`. Will only split items by quantity, if discount value `considerAdvancedRules` is `true` and `applierKey` is not "ALL"
___
# Upgrade Information
## New public methods for performance improvements
### PriceCollection

> If you use the `\Shopware\Core\Checkout\Cart\Price\Struct\PriceCollection` `sum` function for a single value (e.g. `getTotalPrice`), you can now use the new public function `getUnitPriceAmount` or `getTotalPriceAmount` for performance reasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the `\Shopware\Core\Checkout\Cart\Price\Struct\PriceCollection::sum()` method for a single value (e.g. `getTotalPrice`), you can now use the new public method `getUnitPriceAmount` or `getTotalPriceAmount` to gain performance improvements.
```

### PercentageTaxRuleBuilder

> It isn't needed anymore to create a CalculatedPrice object. With the new method only a collection and total price is needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It isn't needed anymore to create a `\Shopware\Core\Checkout\Cart\Price\Struct\CalculatedPrice` object to build the tax rules. With the new method `buildCollectionRules` only a `\Shopware\Core\Checkout\Cart\Tax\Struct\CalculatedTaxCollection` and the total price are needed.
```

the things in `# Upgrade Information` will be merged into a new file. therefore it is important to mention the things explicitly here again. I know, it is annoying, but it will change soon :grimacing:

---
title: Improve promotion calculation
issue: #8329
---
# Core
* Changed `getTotalPriceAmount` and `getUnitPriceAmount` method visibilities to public in `src/Core/Checkout/Cart/Price/Struct/PriceCollection.php`
* Added new `buildCollectionRules` method in `src/Core/Checkout/Cart/Tax/PercentageTaxRuleBuilder.php`
* Changed `getMatchingItems` in `src/Core/Checkout/Promotion/Cart/Discount/ScopePackager/CartScopeDiscountPackager.php`. Will only split items by quantity, if advanced rules and apply key not "ALL"
* Added new method `findCodeById` in `src/Core/Checkout/Promotion/Cart/CartPromotionsDataDefinition.php`
___
# API
*
___
# Administration
*
___
# Storefront

> *

Reviewer 2: please remove unnecessary sections

---
title: Improve promotion calculation
issue: #8329
---
# Core

> * Changed `getTotalPriceAmount` and `getUnitPriceAmount` method visibilities to public in `src/Core/Checkout/Cart/Price/Struct/PriceCollection.php`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Changed `getTotalPriceAmount` and `getUnitPriceAmount` method visibilities to public in `\Shopware\Core\Checkout\Cart\Price\Struct\PriceCollection`
```

I like to mention the FQCN more than stating the file. wdyt?

> * Added new `buildCollectionRules` method in `src/Core/Checkout/Cart/Tax/PercentageTaxRuleBuilder.php`

Reviewer: would be good to state the purpose of this new method

> * Changed `getMatchingItems` in `src/Core/Checkout/Promotion/Cart/Discount/ScopePackager/CartScopeDiscountPackager.php`. Will only split items by quantity, if advanced rules and apply key not "ALL"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Changed `getMatchingItems` in `src/Core/Checkout/Promotion/Cart/Discount/ScopePackager/CartScopeDiscountPackager.php`. Will only split items by quantity, if advanced rules **are present**(?) and apply key is not "ALL"
```
the sentence is missing some verbs :grin:

> * Added new method `findCodeById` in `src/Core/Checkout/Promotion/Cart/CartPromotionsDataDefinition.php`

Reviewer: also some words to the purpose
